New durability section - in development (#4677)
EnterpriseDB/docs: product_docs/docs/pgd/5/durability/index.mdx

title: Durability

navigation:
 - overview
 - configuring
 - commit-scopes
 - comparing
 - '# Commit Scope kinds'
 - group-commit
 - camo
 - lag-control
 - synchronous_commit
 - '# Working with'
 - administering
 - legacy-sync
 - limitations

redirects:
  - /pgd/latest/bdr/durability/
  - /pgd/latest/choosing_durability/
---

EDB Postgres Distributed offers a range of synchronous modes to complement its
default asynchronous replication. These synchronous modes are configured through
commit scopes; rules that define how operations are handled and when the system
should consider a transaction committed. 

## Introducing 

> * [Overview](overview) introduces these concepts and some of the essential 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Overview](overview) introduces the concepts and some of the essential 
```

of commit scopes and how to define them for your needs.

* [Comparing](comparing) compares how each option behaves.

## Commit scope kinds

* [Group Commit](group-commit) focuses on the Group Commit option, where you can
define a transaction as done when a group of nodes agrees its done.

* [CAMO](camo) focuses on the Commit At Most Once option, which allows applications
to participate in confirming a transaction has been done and in turn ensure that
their commits only happen at most once.

* [Lag Control](lag-control) looks at the commit scope mechanism which regulates how
far out of sync nodes may go when a database node goes out of service.

* [Synchronous Commit](synchronous_commit) examines a commit scope mechanism which works
in a similar fashion to legacy synchronous replication, but from within the commit scope framework.

## Working with commit scopes

* [Administering](administering) addresses how a PGD cluster with Group Commit
in use should be managed.

* [Legacy Synchronous Replication](legacy-sync) shows how traditional Postgres synchronous operations
can still be accessed under EDB Postgres Distributed.

> * [Internal timing of operations](timing) compared Legacy replication with PGD's async and synchronous

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Internal timing of operations](timing) compares legacy replication with PGD's async and synchronous
```

operations, especially the difference in the order by which transactions are flushed to disk or made visible.

* [Limitations](limitations) lists the various combinations of durability options
which are not currently supported or not possible. Do refer to this before deciding

> on a durability strategy.

Author: Moved

 - legacy-sync
 - limitations

redirects:
  - /pgd/latest/bdr/durability/
  - /pgd/latest/choosing_durability/
---

EDB Postgres Distributed (PGD) offers a range of synchronous modes to complement its
default asynchronous replication. These synchronous modes are configured through
commit scopes; rules that define how operations are handled and when the system
should consider a transaction committed. 

## Introducing 

* [Overview](overview) introduces the concepts and some of the essential 
terminology which is used when discussing synchronous commits.

* [Durability terminology](durabilityterminology) lists terms used around PGD's 
durability options, including how nodes are referred to in replication.

* [Commit scopes](commit-scopes) is a more in-depth look at the structure
of commit scopes and how to define them for your needs.

* [Commit scope rules](commit-scope-rules) looks at the syntax of and how to formulate
a commit scope rule.

* [Comparing](comparing) compares how each option behaves.

## Commit scope kinds

* [Group Commit](group-commit) focuses on the Group Commit option, where you can
define a transaction as done when a group of nodes agrees it's done.

> * [CAMO](camo) focuses on the Commit At Most Once option, which allows
> applications to take on the responsibility of verifying that a commit has been
> successful before retying. This ensures that their commits only happen at most
> once.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [CAMO](camo) focuses on the Commit At Most Once option, in which applications take responsibility for verifying that a transaction has been committed before retrying.
This ensures that their commits only happen at most once.
```

Author: Fixed elsewhere
